415-557-4572.
Good.
And her home number is 415-922-5869.
I definitely remember her name.
I'm sure I know I met her someplace.
in their rare books department.
So she goes to those.
I've given a lot of talks generally to friends of libraries and stuff like that.
I can't remember where she said it was.
It could have been at the iLab thing, which is last September.
I gave a talk for the friends of the Stanford Public Library last year, and I gave one at the thing.
at the uh the book fair. And I did meet a lot of people at those at those talks so it's very different. Oh I'll bet I know what it was. I gave a talk at the Roxburg Club uh in February of uh of 90s last year so I mean I gave three talks in San Francisco and I'll bet you she was there because that was all. Sounds right. Yeah that's exactly where I met her, at the Roxburg Club. Yeah I think that that could well be. It rings a bell although I'm not gonna.
I don't know.
No, I remember now.
Oh, great.
Oh, terrific.
I like this story a lot.
It even has links with your own stuff.
And the other woman who's been kind of vocal about all this, the other librarian, is Melissa Riley.
Melissa?
Melissa Riley.
And her number is...
The number is 510-524-2155.
Good.
Excellent.
Super.
And then the people who, the other, you know, the branch librarians, she's a kind of floating branch librarian who's chosen to
The other great thing about public librarians that I, you know, didn't recognize before I got involved in this is that they genuinely do believe in public service.
They believe, you know, that maybe the salary is lower and things are less flashy and stuff, but you were helping people to be able to consult books.
Oh, I genuinely believe that.
Yeah, and so the San Francisco Public Library is this
is a huge and wonderful collection that's free.
It's the only collection in the region whose books you don't have to pay to see, really.
Because at Cal, if you want to take out books, you have to pay a fee and join up and stuff like that.
So it really is supposed to be the agent of democracy and all that good stuff.
It's especially important that those librarians who are in the midst of this crazy enthusiasm have kind of said, wait a second.
So what are you working on these days?
I wrote a novel while I was in England, and I've written a piece that has to do with Venice for The New Yorker.
Oh, nice.
I'm doing the research for another novel now.
You know, I write a column, a literary column, which is apart from
my work on my book, and I've syndicated it in about 25 newspapers, none, unfortunately, in California.
It's a tough sell getting a literary call.
I'm out there, I have to say.
That's too bad.
That sounds great.
And what I've done is target university towns.
And so I'm in Eugene, Oregon.
I'm in Charlottesville, Knoxville, Gainesville, Toledo, believe it or not, Columbus, Madison, Austin.
Jackson, Mississippi.
I mean, it sounds like an athletic league, you know, the NCAA.
But, you know, I do this every week.
Wow.
And, in fact, I'm just finishing up on the Hermione Lee biography of Virginia Woolf, which is really, really good.
I haven't seen it yet.
Well, it's huge.
It's 800 pages.
But, you know, I'd love to do a feature on you, you know, when your next book comes out.
Well, it'll be a pleasure.
I mean, you know, I would
Anytime.
Yeah, good.
Well, I mean, ideally it's when the book comes out because it helps, you know.
Well, the book is not scheduled, I think, until they were going to publish it in the fall.
And then I think it's now scheduled for May of next year.
Oh, good.
Good.
Excellent.
Well, you know, you're still with Random House?
Yeah.
Good.
I know the publicist there very well.
Yeah, the woman who seems to do my stuff is Layla Morrissey.
Yeah, I know Layla.
I know Malt, Tom Perry, and I've been doing this for 20 years.
This is my... Well, anyway, that's a lot of work because every week... It is.
What was so impressive about... One of the many things that was impressive about your book was the...
I don't think people who haven't done this understand how difficult it is to come up with a printed, a written text based on that many hundreds of interviews.
Because, you know, it's just different.
It's different from working with printed sources where you kind of, someone has already made the leap from the spoken realm to the written realm.
But all that, all that huge list of,
interviewees at the end.
I thought of a number of cassette tapes.
Oh, Christ.
I am now faced with, and I do my own transcriptions too, which is... Well, that's in a way that's smart.
It is, because it relives the moment and the nuance comes back to you and all that stuff.
And I just came back from Paris with 15 hours of tape, you know, and...
And I was just looking at that stack of tapes sitting over there.
But I think there were like 250 hours of tape for that book.
And this new one, he's already over 100, 150.
And we meant for this to be a smaller book.
And you know how these things are, right?
Yeah, no.
Well, when you picked, it turns out, you picked a huge subject in the midst of its biggest defining moment, in a way, because all the
all the libraries are going through this convulsion at the same time.
And that's just part of what I'm doing, this new book.
I mean, I'm trying to enter the debate on the cultural wars as they relate to texts.
Try to do a chapter on bibliography and this whole scholarly concept of history of the book, you know, the Bob Darnton kinds of books.
Going to do something on Sarajevo, the destruction in one night of 1.2 million books deliberately.
you know, as part of ethnic cleansing.
If you're going to kill the people, you have to kill their memory.
Post-Soviet book culture, I'll be starting with a, and this is kind of fun, it's an excuse to travel, but kind of a pilgrimage to libraries through history, but chronologically going along, you know, the Library of Pergamum is still there, for instance, or go to St.
Gall, where you had the great surviving
You know, go to Monte Cassino where the rule of Benedict was formulated.
Go to the library in Seville that was established by Columbus's son.
And, you know, when you talk about North America, the European experience in America is totally bracketed by print.
I mean, it's a totally documented history.
And I don't know how you can say these little things as you're going to these libraries.
I don't know.
I mean, when you talk about closing a library and changing the whole concept of a library,
And you even have libraries that are being built now that they don't call them that anymore.
You know, they're learning resource centers, you know.
And you talked the other day about, you know, what the reading room of the British Library means.
I mean, it's not just a warehouse where you keep paper and, you know, and cardboard.
I mean, a library is a spiritual place.
It's a temple, I mean.
That's so true.
That sounds like a dynamite.
I just hope I can handle it, that's all.
I mean, I just hope I don't lose control of it.
That's the only problem with it.
It's funny that one of the first things you mentioned was the culture wars and stuff.
There are always these incredible fuss-ups because...
My friend Flicka has been removed from the shelves of a library.
Oh, Nancy Drew in San Francisco.
Right, right.
And I can get, I suppose, upset about those things a little bit.
But really, I don't think that people understand that there's a different order of magnitude of censorship going on when you remove...
all the books that nobody knows about, because everybody knows about Nancy Drew and my friend Luca.
It's going to be available no matter what, no matter how hostile some small town in Ohio is to it.
The memory of the book is not erased.
But if you remove all the books that have no defenders and have nobody who really knows that they even exist, then you're doing a kind of wholesale censorship
that I think is much more damaging because it's, and that's really, that is the other fundamental difficulty with this is that if you make the analogy to, say, green battles, you know, people focus on some sub-variety of salamander and everybody kind of accepts that that,
that particular park has to be saved because there are these two or three unique species there.
But it's harder to make that kind of argument on the basis of 20,000 or 30,000 old books because each old book individually, it isn't probably the very last copy in existence.
But it could be.
It could be, and that's another.
It probably isn't, and it isn't something that you can weep over on its own.
But as a kind of stratum of books, of these unheralded, low-profile books that nobody knows about that are being thrown away or given away, I think that is really...
No, actually, you have touched on this in your talk, in your speech, and in your article, and I am really investigating this.
Because what you have and what I'm really trying to establish are policies.
What policy do you apply to a book that hasn't been read?
Now, at the University of Michigan, for instance, they have the what-if rule.
I'm making a glossary of these things.
If a book has not been called out in the past five years, for instance, it is a candidate for deaccessioning.
Five-year rule there.
That was University of where?
Michigan.
And so they're saying, well, and the what-if rule is, well, what if somebody wants it?
What do we do with it?
What if somebody might want it after seven years?
But they're discussing these things.
Now, Harvard saves all their books.
And then they have built, which I'm starting this chapter with a visit to the Harvard Depository right out here in Southboro, where they
I call it the Valley of the Kings for books.
And so they have these big modules.
Each module can hold 2.5 million books.
And they're books that nobody is calling for.
But the computer says if somebody wants it, then it goes back to Cambridge within a 24-hour period.
But now what a lot of people are doing, and I said, well, how many books a week do you send in to Cambridge?
They said, oh, about...
a hundred a week.
I said, that's a lot, you know?
But what's happening is that it's kind of like what you've identified at San Francisco.
You've got graduate students, you've got teachers who object to certain books going off to the depository calling for them.
So they're requiring them to come back to the library, you know?
To show that they're used and that they're in demand.
But Harvard, at least, is not getting rid of their books.
Cornell is, you see.
And who are their patrons?
You see, you alluded to that earlier with Pacific Bell.
They're getting all their equipment, all their money, all their sponsorship.
from Eastman Kodak and from Xerox. Right? And Eastman Kodak is in the digital imaging. Well they're giving them the machines. Machines are there they're doing this stuff. They are basically acting as agents for these companies so they don't care about the books you know, and but Cornell they're bright. They're doing it in a I mean they're doing it in a very
systematic way.
They're documenting everything.
And they almost challenged me when I went there to, you know, I mean, they're holding nothing back.
I mean, it's very interesting.
If you can get that on the page.
Oh, I can get it.
Then, you know, you've caught that moment in time.
Oh, man.
Well, it's always horrifying to hear that it's someplace like Cornell.
Well, you know, they're still going to have five million books, or maybe they're going to have six million books.
That makes it one of the ten largest libraries in America.
They can argue, as you have argued, who needs 15 copies of Paul Samuelson's economics?
There are plenty of, you know, and that's the other thing that has to be said over and over again, that
weeding is part of librarianship and etc but it's just there's a whole thing going on at San Francisco now that Andrew can tell you about they're trying to formulate a reasonable weeding policy which they never had one of the things that came up in the whole lawsuit and they still haven't sent me any of those memos or documents that related to the weeding of Brooks Hall but what
what's going on at, you know, whether it should be no use in five years.
That's kind of, that would be a Dowlin kind of thing.
That would be, sure.
That's an extreme.
That's really... Well, I'm not so sure it's been implemented yet, but they're discussing it, you know, and they... I think some of the rumors that I heard at San Francisco, one of which it was when they were really in the midst of this flurry at one point, the then...
One of the then administrators who's since left said that, you know, think seriously about getting rid of any book published before 1920.
Jesus.
But the New Yorker wouldn't let me put that in because the attribution path was not.
The person who reported it wasn't willing to go on the record and, you know, all that crap.
But then...
But there are weeding old, the 1970 weeding policies at San Francisco where, you know, bear in mind that you really have to be conservative about this.
If it could conceivably be a fuse to somebody at some time in the future, keep it.
Which is, I think, for a big library, is the right way to go.
I mean, err on the side of keeping.
The prologue to my new book, which I've given in talks, I try it out, you know, and I'll tell you when it's very brief.
I describe, and it does allow me to make a link between Gentle Madness and this new book, is when I was closing the proofs for Gentle Madness, the copy editor, we desperately had to get some bibliographical information on the 1911 book.
catalog to Samuel Pepys' library, right, which I had been working off of Xerox from Cambridge University.
And to make a long story, I couldn't find it at Harvard.
They had the old catalog on the most, but they didn't have the 1911.
BPL didn't have it.
Unfortunately, I read it to Boston Athenaeum.
I go there, I find it.
As I'm checking out the books, of course, they weren't on scanners yet, or, you know, I find, this is 1995,
that I'm the first person in 84 years to ever check out these books, you know, and they're in beautiful shape, and there they are, and I say something.
I've even got the guy's name.
I say, wow, boy, 84 years.
Who do you think they bought these books for anyway in the first place?
And he looks at me, and he says, we bought them for you, sir.
It's so beautiful.
I love it.
I mean, doesn't that give you goose pimples?
Yeah, that's so great.
It was the voice coming down through the ages.
You know, you're not just buying for yourself.
That's the whole point of a goddamn library.
Am I right?
Yeah.
It's an act of... Of faith.
Future directed public service.
Well, Victor Hugo said a library is an act of faith.
Yeah.
In the fact that the future... Yeah, exactly.
So... That's a beautiful beginning.
Well, that's the prologue.
And then I also have...
Otto Bettman in there, you know.
You've heard of the Bettman Archive, who's alive and well and living in Florida.
Bill Gates bought the Bettman Archive.
But Otto is a former, also going to have a chapter, by the way, on the Jewish emigre booksellers who were forced out of
Germany by Hitler you know and who actually changed the whole flow of books and I'm not just talking about collectors but you know they brought this European tradition and Roger started at Harvard says we owe so much to Hitler and he doesn't say that with irony I mean because of all these books that were then the flow of books and ideas and that came this way after the before the war during the war even during the war and after the war for 60 years
So what I'm trying to do is find all the survivors, all the relatives of these emigre booksellers.
But how the hell did I get off on that?
I'm sorry, what was I talking about before that?
You started off by talking about the beginning.
Anyway, my mind is a war.
I'm sorry.
It's a very, very interesting concept, you know, about books, saving books, saving ideas, passing them.
I don't know.
Anyway, listen, want to take a break here?
I think we've got a lot of stuff.
Are you going to be around this fall, do you think?
Yeah.
Yeah, just call any time.
You know, maybe when I come out, because one of the, I think I'm coming out in November, the, what is it, the Association of Literary Critics and Scholars, you've heard of them.
That's kind of the group that's been established in opposition to the MLA.
Oh, really?
Is having their meeting out there in November.
Well, November's the only month that I may be gone for some period.
Okay, well.
But I think, you know, with warnings.
but we're going to visit my parents on the East Coast for a couple of weeks.
Oh, sounds good.
I'll give you a call, and when I know I'm coming out, I'd love to meet you, chat.
I'd like to pick up this discussion again, you know, if you have time to pursue it.
What I'd like to do is go through the tape and the materials, and then maybe we go.
Sounds good, and I hope you can get a chance to
to talk to Andrea and some of the other... Oh, I'll do that quickly.
I'll do that very quickly.
And I'm going to try and get in touch with Dallin.
Yeah.
He might just want to articulate his position, you know?
The thing that I think... Well, the only thing about Dallin that... What I don't understand about the reverence for Dallin is that he isn't a Bill Gates geek type at all.
I mean, he isn't... I mean, this is just sort of my own private...
But he really is an old-fashioned ex-Marine.
Yeah, well, you say that.
You make that clear in the essay, which is... I think that's why it's so bizarre that he would be embraced.
But then again, that's often true.
But he doesn't have a book back.
He's not really a book person, is he?
No, and you know... He's a mechanic more than anything else.
He secretly said, somebody swore that I would never divulge the source of this, but this guy who's very, you know...
talked to a whole lot of these people and stuff.
Historical-minded guy said, Dallin at one point shook his head and said, look, you know, France, who was the former director, France was a book guy, but not a book guy.
You know, he even understood it.
It's just that he couldn't quite say that to San Francisco.
But anyway.
Anyway, what I was telling, I remember now what I was about to say.
Otto Bettman also came.
He came here in 1933.
He was a librarian, a rare books librarian.
and he's Jewish, and of course he got fired and he came here.
And he came here with a couple of photographs, but here's a guy who touches everything.
He touches every decade of the 20th century, who basically invented this whole concept of imagery in magazines,
who wanted to be a publisher, who was a rare books librarian and whose archive was bought by Bill Gates for 20 million bucks.
I mean, and who wrote a book and who was one of the great world authorities on Bach.
And while I was visiting with him in Florida, he's playing a Bach piece on the organ.
And I say, why?
And I asked him, why Bach?
And he said, good question.
He said, Bach always returns to the place that he began.
I mean, you talk about a continuum.
Wherever he goes, he always comes back to the place he started.
He said, that's what I like most about him.
So that's kind of the prologue to the new book, concluding with the we bought it for you, sir, and then going off into the libraries of history and then going up to the libraries of the future and the textual problems and all that other.
See if it works.
Who knows, right?
Well, it'll be, who knows?
Maybe the Pulitzer Prize.
I just wanted to sell as many copies as I did in the last one.
That's all.
One step at a time.
Well, good luck with it.
I really appreciate the time.
Yeah.
And you're a Nick B., so we must have something in common here.
Oh, strange.
If I come across any of these other documents as I go through boxes, I'll
send them on to you and you feel free to just ignore them.
Excellent.
And then, you know, when I do have, I don't mind going over quotes with people, by the way.
I'm happy to do it.
So if you want me to go over some of your quotes, you know, when we get to a manuscript, I'd be happy to do that.
Well, it might be good because I'm so, you know, I have this problem of
circling back and restating. Yeah well sometimes you know I do like to make, I do like to see verbs agree with nouns and stuff like that. Yeah always good. So I have no problems going over quotes with people. Okay but I don't like, the only thing I don't like doing is the is changing materially what i was trying to say because that seems. I never do that. Yeah but of course no I mean I mean that you wouldn't but that I would at least I'm cheating but I
I'd like to do that, sure.
No, in fact, if you wanted to, I really want to capture the sense of what you mean.
I'm saying so.
Yeah, right.
I would love to.
I'd love to.
But that'll be a while.
It might be several months on that.
I'm just starting the writing now, so hope to deliver a manuscript in a year.
We'll see.
Good.
I'll be in touch.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Take care.
Bye-bye.